1) To initialize a git repository in your folder:
git init

2) To see the status of staging area:
git status

3) To set or change a user name:
git config --global user.name "<your user name>"

4) To set or change a user email:
git config --global user.email <user's email>

5) git config --list

6) To see user name:
git config user.name

7) To see user email
git config user.email

8) To add all files in the folder to the staging area:
git add .
To add specified file to the staging area:
git add <filename>

9) git --version

10) To remove a file intirely - from staging area and from folder as well:
git rm -f <filename>
To remove a file from the staging area only:
git rm --cached <filename>

11) Commit allows you to take a snapshot of all the changes and modifications you have done at the time
and store them in the tree!
git commit --help
git commit -m "<commit message>"

12) To see a list of all commits:
git log
To see what files were changed in the commits:
git log --raw
To display exactly what changed in the files.
git log --patch
To see commits info in one line for each commit:
git log --oneline

13) git diff <filename>

14) To move between branches and to move back in time(we don't delete all the revisions):
git checkout <commit id>
To get back to the top:
git checkout master
So it allows you to move down and up(back and forth) in the master's tree. If you have branches - you will be able to move left/right
to the branches as well.

15) To revert one commit:
git revert <commit id>
It is a safe way to revert changes done in a particular one commit. And now we still are able to
use: git checkout <reverted commit id>
Also if you want to get back what you reverted in commit X, you can revert the commit in which you reverted the commit X!

16) You need to be very careful when using reset with --hard flag:
git reset --hard <reset commit id>
As it removes all the commits that happened after the one specified in the <reset commit id>!
It is not recommended to use git reset and git revert often! 
Types of reset:
--soft - is actually the same as git checkout!
It is usefull when you made a mistake in the commit message, you do: git reset --soft <previous commit id>
And now you see all the files from your last commit in the staging area, so you can recommit 
with a proper message.
SO it moves your HEAD revision to <previous commit>(the commit you specified in git reset), and your
changes are still in index(the changes are ADDED and ready to be committed)!

--mixed
It works as --soft, but all the files from your last commit are removed from the staging area as well.
So you need to do : git add
And then commit.
It moves your HEAD revision to <previous commit>(the commit you specified in git reset), and your
changes are still in index(the changes are ADDED and ready to be committed)!
SO it moves your HEAD revision to <previous commit>(the commit you specified in git reset), and your
changes are NOT in index(the changes are NOT added to the staging area)!

--hard - the most commonly used. It is used when you crashed something and you have to reset
to the last working version of your project!
SO it moves your HEAD revision to <previous commit>(the commit you specified in git reset), and your
changes are NOT in index(the changes are NOT added to the staging area)! AND all the changes in commits after
<previous commit>(the commit you specified in git reset) are NOT THERE. Files are deleted, changes are lost!

17) A nice feature in git - you can create a file .gitignore
and put all files and directories that you whant to be ignored by git.
If after adding a file or dir to .gitignore, you still see those files/dirs as unstaged etc...
you need to remove all untracked cached files: git rm -r --cached .
It will remove all of the cached files.

18) Git Branches:
Git branches are a way to create separate development paths without overriding or creating copies of your project.
Branches can be added, deleted, and merged, just like regular commits.

Branches can be used to:
- Create separate development paths without overriding progress.
- Separate different end goals of your project.
- Creates separate branches for each stage of development(realease, development, fixes, master).
